content/programs/inversion.rst, before:

.. _e3d_inv:

Inversion Program
=================

Both the forward and inverse problems are solved using the **e3dinv.exe** executable program. In each case, format of the :ref:`input file<e3d_input_inv>` (denoted here as **e3dinv.inp**) is the same. In the case of forward modeling however, some lines in the input file are omitted.

Running the Program
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Here, the *mpiexec* call is used to parallelize multiple processes (large-scale independent operations) within the code. To run the executable, open a command window and type the following:

.. figure:: images/run_e3dinv.png
     :align: center
     :width: 700

The call *mpiexec* is followed by the flag *-n*, then the number of processes (*"nFreq"* ) to be carried out simultaneously. This is followed by the paths to the executable and the corresponding input file, respectively. The number of simultaneous processes (*"nFreq"* ) **must** be equal or less than the number of frequencies. Ideally there is enough memory for *nFreq* to be equal to the number of frequencies.

Setting Number of Threads with Open MPI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before running the executable, the number of threads used to carry out all simultaneous processes can be set with Open MPI. This is set in the command window **before** running the executable. To set the number of threads (*nThreads* ), use the following syntax:

    - Windows computer: "set OMP_NUM_THREADS=nThreads"
    - Linux (bash shell): "export OMP_NUM_THREADS=nThreads"
    - Linux (csh shell): "setenv OMP_NUM_THREADS nThreads"

.. important:: The number of processes (*nFreq* ) times the number of threads (*nThreads* ) **cannot** exceed the total number of threads available from the computer.

Units
^^^^^

    - **Electric field data:** Real and imaginary components of *Ex*, *Ey* and *Ez* in units V/m
    - **Magnetic field data:** Real and imaginary components of the total magnetic field *Hx*, *Hy* and *Hz* in units A/m. 
    - **Conductivity model:** S/m
    - **Reference/starting conductivity model:** S/m 
    - **Model/interface weights:** unitless


.. important:: Any combination of data, electric and or magnetic field components, can be be inverted. A specified flag at the start of the observations file can be used to omit columns or individual datums.



Output Files
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The program **e3dinv.exe** creates the following output files:

    - **dpred_fwd.txt** predicted data if forward modeling is used

    - **model0.con:** the starting model

    - **dpred0.txt** data predicted using the starting model

    - **inv_xx.con:** recovered model at iteration 'xx'

    - **dpred_xx.txt** data predicted using model 'xx'

    - **inv.con:** final conductivity model

    - **e3d_octree_inv_pardiso.log:** log file for the inversion

    - **e3d_octree_inv.pardiso.out:** stores details regarding the inversion

Commit message:

Add run programs section. fix some typos

content/programs/inversion.rst, after:

.. _tdoctree_inv:

Inversion Program
=================

Both the forward and inverse problems are solved using the **TDoctreeinv.exe** executable program. In each case, format of the :ref:`input file<tdoctree_input_inv>` (denoted here as **tdoctreeinv.inp**) is the same. In the case of forward modeling however, some lines in the input file are omitted.

Running the Program
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Unlike some other UBC-GIF programs, the *mpiexec* call **cannot** be used to parallelize multiple processes (large-scale independent operations) within the code. To run the executable, open a command window and type the following:

.. figure:: images/run_tdoctreeinv.png
     :align: center
     :width: 700

Setting Number of Threads with Open MPI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before running the executable, the number of threads used to carry out all simultaneous processes can be set with Open MPI. This is set in the command window **before** running the executable. To set the number of threads (*nThreads* ), use the following syntax:

    - Windows computer: "set OMP_NUM_THREADS=nThreads"
    - Linux (bash shell): "export OMP_NUM_THREADS=nThreads"
    - Linux (csh shell): "setenv OMP_NUM_THREADS nThreads"

.. important:: The number of processes (*nFreq* ) times the number of threads (*nThreads* ) **cannot** exceed the total number of threads available from the computer.

Units
^^^^^

    - **Electric field data:** *Ex*, *Ey* and *Ez* in units V/m
    - **Magnetic field data:** *Hx*, *Hy* and *Hz* in units A/m. 
    - **Magnetic field data:** *dBx/dt*, *dBy/dt* and *-dBz/dt* in units T/s. The vertical component of dB/dt is represented using -dBz/dt due to a long-standing plotting convention 
    - **Conductivity model:** S/m
    - **Susceptibility model:** SI
    - **Reference/starting conductivity model:** S/m 
    - **Model/interface weights:** unitless


.. important:: Any combination of data, electric and or magnetic field components, can be be inverted. A specified flag at the start of the observations file can be used to omit columns or individual datums.



Output Files
^^^^^^^^^^^^

The program **TDoctreeinv.exe** creates the following output files:

    - **dpred0.txt** data predicted using the starting model or forward model

    - **inv_xxx.con:** recovered model at iteration 'xxx'

    - **dpred_xxx.txt** data predicted using model 'xxx'

    - **inv.con:** final conductivity model

    - **TD_octree_inv_1mesh.log:** log file for the inversion

    - **TD_octree_inv_1mesh.out:** stores details regarding the inversion
